So far we have defined two abilities.
Update posts and delete posts and they can be used to verify a particular user can edit or delete a
blog post and he can only do that when he's out or off a particular blog post.
But what if we'll have AI users which should have more permissions.
Like administrators of this website.
So currently we have this checks whether the user I.D. matches the post user I.D. but seems there can
be an admin we can override all of those abilities or particular abilities and allow specific users
to do more.
So first we will generate a migration for our user
so we can make particular users admins so currently inside our database we do not have anything that
will denote that that the user is an admin so let's generate a migration.
So we write peach bee artisan make migration add is either mean to users tabled OK we can find this
new migration inside migrations folder and now let's define a new boolean column so we can specify that
certain users should be admins so we'll add a new column of boolean type and the name would be is admin
and we'll provide our default value which would be false that's the safest thing to do and of course
in the down will just drop column
column name is is admin and now let's execute this migration BGP artisan migrate
so we do not actually have ways to register admins and manage users so we should somehow change our
model factories so let's open the user factory so here we have our user factory for everyone and we
should provide is admin field and this would be false obviously we actually don't have to provide it
because we have defined a default value to be false and we'll make John Doe on admin
so set to true.
Now let's go back to the terminal and round Peach Pit artisan D.B. seed to reload our database with
this data.
So let's confirm that we want to refresh the database and apparently we have an error in some of our
migrations.
So I'd assume that would be the one when we fixed that test to check if the connection is askew or light
testing.
All right.
So I see the obvious error we first negate this environment.
DB connection where instead we should do something like this so it's a very trivial mistake sorry for
that.
So let's fix it up now.
Save the changes.
Clear the screen again and rerun.
Peach bee artisan D.B. seed.
Confirm with.
Yes.
And just go with the defaults.
Now let's see if our John Doe is actually on.
I mean so yes he is.
Is arming us one because bully ounce will actually be stored as numbers in my sequel.
This should be a tiny integer so that's correct.
It's a tiny integer.
All right let's go back now we can close this migration.
We can also close this model factory.
Now let's go back to the service provider.
So we have two gate checks defined here with that update post ability and delete post ability which
you use to verify users permissions by using the gate for site allows or denies mattered or using the
outer Rice helper inside the controller.
Now if you will have a user which would be an admin person which would have much more privileges than
a normal user what you might want to do is to intercept a gate check.
So let's see how we can implement that concept so we can define before handler for our gate which does
not have a name.
It only has closure which accepts our user and ability as a second parameter.
So let's explain what this does.
So that before handler would be called before any of these other gate checks would be called.
So that gate before is always called first.
So what you get here is the currently authenticated user which is provided by Lavell.
And the second parameter ability is the name of that ability that is gonna be checked next.
So in our case this might be update post or delete post so you can apply something globally to old abilities
but you can also do this like you can make I not mean that can only override certain rights but now
let's keep it simple and let's first override everything for an admin.
So we have an user and our new field is admin and currently this would be only true for our John Doe
user which we created inside the cedar and from within this method we can do either return true or false.
So then it would never get to the other gates.
This would just be the result.
For for this particular admin user.
But if you want to return anything then it will fall to the actual gate checked verified user permissions.
So this simple case will return true for older users that are other means which means now they can perform
any action that we have at least those actions that we protect by defining some gate checks.
So let's see how this works in practice.
So save the changes and let's go to the browser to verify that.
Now take a close look at what I am doing here.
So I am authenticated as John Doe which happens to be the only admin inside our application and you
can see that there is a blog post by someone else.
Now I am able to modify it
I can modify the title and you can see that it was modified.
Now if I go back to the least of blog posts you can see that the title was changed and I am also able
to delete this blog post completely even vote.
I wasn't the outer of this because I am authenticated as John Doe.
So basically this is how our overriding or intercepting the gate checks works.
So this is called before we even gate you before we even get to the particular gate to check for certain
ability we always return true.
Now let's see another example.
So another case when we would only give certain abilities to the admin so we can use in array.
The simplest way to implement that and will check if the ability is in the least of the abilities that
we have given to the you to the admin users.
So as it looks right now we are checking if the user is an admin and then if the ability that we are
overriding is in a list of the abilities that the administrator can perform so he would be able to update
the post and delete the post.
Now let's remove one of those abilities.
So now we only allow other means to update posts but not to delete them.
Let's go and verify that so we can see there is another post by someone else not the person I am authenticated
us.
So let's see.
I should be able to modify it.
And I am.
It was modified but now let's see what happens if I try to delete this blog post.
So we get the 400 free page that we are not out to rise to perform this action.
So that would be the simplest implementation you can give to your website when you have normal users
that can only perform certain actions on the content that they have created.
And this is also the way you can create special admin user that can perform a little bit more obviously.
That's a very naive implementation in the real world.
You probably would implement it using the roll system or action control list.
There are different names for this and it would go like.
Users would have rows and then you will verify if certain user has a role that is able to perform a
specific action.
So you do not really have to implement this road system in light of all by yourself.
There are great libraries that will do that for you but we'll get to that later.
Now before we end this lecture.
The b4 gate interception is one way you can do that.
Another way is to use the after so after is almost exactly the same as before.
In terms of how the code should look like with the difference that before is being called before you
even get to that gate check for certain ability.
So this overrides everything completely and after has one more argument called the result and it works
differently.
So let's take a look now after would be called actually after the gate check was called and then the
result will be passed by a Lavell so we can see what was the result of the gate check.
So in this case for example if we are thinking about our John Doe admin user if he will try to update
a blog post that was created by someone else.
This would return false and you can see that inside this argument.
This would return false.
So you can use that to do some further checks.
So it's like a different way of overriding the gate checks.
In this case it is run before we even get to the gate check and after is after we get to the gate check.
But you can still modify the result so you can do whatever you like.
Depending on this argument or you can ignore it altogether.
But that's just another way you can intercept and modify the gate check result.
So let's comment about because we won't be using that just so you know there is another way to do that.